---
id: python-installation
title: Scope Python Agent installation
sidebar_label: Installation
---

## GitHub Actions

Add a step to your GitHub Actions workflow YAML that uses the [Scope-for-Python](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/scope-for-python) action:

```yaml
steps:
  - uses: actions/checkout@v1
  - uses: actions/setup-python@v1
    with:
      python-version: "3.x"
  - name: Install dependencies
    run: pip install -r requirements.txt
  - name: Scope for Python
    uses: undefinedlabs/scope-for-python-action@v1
    with:
      dsn: ${{secrets.SCOPE_DSN}} # required
      command: python -m unittest discover # optional - default is 'python -m unittest discover'
```

You can find further information of this action at the [GitHub Marketplace](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/scope-for-python).

## Manual

Installation of the Scope Agent is done via [pip](https://pypi.org/project/scopeagent/).

```bash
pip install scopeagent
```

### Instrumenting your tests

There are two ways to instrument your tests: using the `scope-run` CLI as a wrapper (easiest method), or by installing the agent
in your Python code (giving you more control).

#### Using the `scope-run` CLI wrapper

To use the agent without modifying your source code, prefix your test command with `scope-run`:

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->
<!--unittest-->

```bash
scope-run python -m unittest discover
```

<!--pytest-->

```bash
scope-run pytest
```

<!--Django tests-->

```bash
scope-run python manage.py test
```

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

#### Usage with `tox`

In order to use the `scope-run` CLI with [`tox`](https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/), make sure you prefix your
testing command inside your `tox.ini` file, instead of the `tox` command itself.

For example:

```ini
# tox.ini
[testenv]
commands = scope-run pytest
passenv =
    SCOPE_DSN
```

And then, run `tox` as usual.

Check out the [CLI reference](https://scope-python-agent.readthedocs.io/en/latest/cli.html) documentation for details.

#### Installing the agent in your code

You can also install the agent in your application's code, as early in the execution as possible:

```python
import scopeagent

agent = scopeagent.Agent()
agent.install()
```

> If using `gevent`, make sure monkey patching happens _before_ installing the Scope agent

After this, you can run your tests as you normally do (for example using `pytest` or `python -m unittest` commands).

Check out the [API reference](https://scope-python-agent.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api.html) documentation for details.

## Environment variables

The following environment variables need to be configured when instrumenting your application in testing or runtime mode:

| Environment variable | Testing mode | Runtime mode | Autodetected |
| -------------------- | ------------ | ------------ | :----------: |
| `SCOPE_DSN`          | Required     | Required     |      ✗       |
| `SCOPE_COMMIT_SHA`   | Required     | Optional     |      ✓       |
| `SCOPE_REPOSITORY`   | Required     | Optional     |      ✓       |
| `SCOPE_SOURCE_ROOT`  | Required     | Optional     |      ✓       |

### SCOPE_DSN

**This is a required setting**. If not set in testing mode, tests will run as usual and an error message pointing to the agent logs for troubleshooting will be printed before the process finishes. If not set in runtime mode, the instrumented process will be executed as usual, a warning message will be printed at the beginning of the execution and no spans will be reported.

`SCOPE_DSN` contains the Data Source Name with connection information about the Scope installation to report to. Specifically, it contains the hostname of the Scope instance to report to, and the API key to be used for authentication. _`SCOPE_DSN` is considered a secret and should not be checked out in a repository._

Scope DSNs are generated per namespace. You can generate them by clicking on the `API Key` link of the namespace you want to report to in the Scope UI. If running locally using the native apps _Scope for Mac_ or _Scope for Windows_, the DSN will be automatically configured by reading it from `~/.scope/config.json`, which is autogenerated by the native app.

Example value: `https://cbfeff1f5fbf444086c728a096020cad@app.scope.dev/`

### SCOPE_COMMIT_SHA

This is a required setting in testing mode, and optional in runtime mode.

`SCOPE_COMMIT_SHA` contains the commit hash to be used when reporting to Scope.

If not explicitly set, the agent will try to automatically detect it using the following algorithm:

1. If the process is being executed inside a [supported CI provider](python-compatibility.md#ci-providers), it will try to read the commit hash from the environment variable set by the CI provider.
2. Else, it will try to extract the current commit from the local git information (if `.git/` is present).

Example value: `974c3566eb8e221d130db86a7ce1f99703fe2e69`

### SCOPE_REPOSITORY

This is a required setting in testing mode, and optional in runtime mode.

`SCOPE_REPOSITORY` contains the repository URL to be used when reporting to Scope.

If not explicitly set, the agent will try to automatically detect it using the following algorithm:

1. If the process is being executed inside a [supported CI provider](python-compatibility.md#ci-providers), it will try to read the repository URL from the environment variables set by the CI provider.
2. If not, it will try to extract the current `origin` remote URL from the local git information (if `.git/` is present).

Examples values: `https://github.com/undefinedlabs/scope-docs.git`, `git@github.com:undefinedlabs/scope-docs.git`

### SCOPE_SOURCE_ROOT

This is a required setting in testing mode, and optional in runtime mode.

`SCOPE_SOURCE_ROOT` contains the absolute path to where the root of the project is located inside the filesystem. This
information is used to automatically show excerpts of source code in the Scope UI in stacktraces, the "Code Path" tab and others.

If not explicitly set, the agent will try to automatically detect it using the following algorithm:

1. If the process is being executed inside a [supported CI provider](python-compatibility.md#ci-providers), it will try to read the source root from the environment variable set by the CI provider.
2. If it isn't, it will try to extract the absolute path to the git repository using the local git information (if `.git/` is present).
3. If it can't, it will be set to the working directory of the command used to launch the application or tests.

Example value: `/home/user/projects/scope-docs`

## Running tests inside a container

If you are running your application or tests inside a container, forward the following environment variables to it so the agent can autodetect the build information. Note that the variables depend on your CI provider.

> Note that you might also need to set `SCOPE_SOURCE_ROOT` manually with the absolute path inside the container where the code is present if it cannot be autodetected by the agent.

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->
<!-- Jenkins -->

- `SCOPE_DSN`
- `JENKINS_URL`
- `GIT_URL`
- `GIT_COMMIT`
- `BUILD_ID`
- `BUILD_NUMBER`
- `BUILD_URL`

<!-- CircleCI -->

- `SCOPE_DSN`
- `CIRCLECI`
- `CIRCLE_REPOSITORY_URL`
- `CIRCLE_SHA1`
- `CIRCLE_BUILD_NUM`
- `CIRCLE_BUILD_URL`

<!-- GitLab CI -->

- `SCOPE_DSN`
- `GITLAB_CI`
- `CI_REPOSITORY_URL`
- `CI_COMMIT_SHA`
- `CI_JOB_ID`
- `CI_JOB_URL`

<!-- Travis -->

- `SCOPE_DSN`
- `TRAVIS`
- `TRAVIS_REPO_SLUG`
- `TRAVIS_COMMIT`
- `TRAVIS_BUILD_ID`
- `TRAVIS_BUILD_NUMBER`

<!-- AppVeyor -->

- `SCOPE_DSN`
- `APPVEYOR`
- `APPVEYOR_REPO_NAME`
- `APPVEYOR_REPO_COMMIT`
- `APPVEYOR_BUILD_ID`
- `APPVEYOR_BUILD_NUMBER`
- `APPVEYOR_PROJECT_SLUG`

<!-- Azure Pipelines -->

- `SCOPE_DSN`
- `TF_BUILD`
- `Build.Repository.Uri`
- `Build.SourceVersion`
- `Build.BuildId`
- `Build.BuildNumber`
- `System.TeamFoundationCollectionUri`
- `System.TeamProject`

<!-- Bitbucket Pipelines -->

- `SCOPE_DSN`
- `BITBUCKET_GIT_SSH_ORIGIN`
- `BITBUCKET_COMMIT`
- `BITBUCKET_BUILD_NUMBER`

<!-- GitHub Actions -->

- `SCOPE_DSN`
- `GITHUB_REPOSITORY`
- `GITHUB_SHA`

<!-- Buildkite -->

- `SCOPE_DSN`
- `BUILDKITE`
- `BUILDKITE_REPO`
- `BUILDKITE_COMMIT`
- `BUILDKITE_BUILD_ID`
- `BUILDKITE_BUILD_NUMBER`
- `BUILDKITE_BUILD_URL`

<!-- TeamCity -->

- `SCOPE_DSN`
- `TEAMCITY_VERSION`
- `BUILD_VCS_URL`
- `BUILD_VCS_NUMBER`
- `BUILD_CHECKOUTDIR`
- `BUILD_NUMBER`
- `BUILD_ID`
- `SERVER_URL`

For `TeamCity`, additional environment variables must be exposed from the Teamcity `Parameters` section:

| Name                    | Value                          |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------------ |
| `env.BUILD_CHECKOUTDIR` | `%teamcity.build.checkoutDir%` |
| `env.BUILD_ID`          | `%teamcity.build.id%`          |
| `env.BUILD_VCS_URL`     | `%vcsroot.url%`                |

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->
